
    Common Collections

Alright, folks, we're diving into the wonderful world of collections in Rust.
Now, here's the deal: Rust's standard library hooks you up with some seriously
handy data structures called collections. These babies are all about holding
multiple values, unlike those one-trick ponies like arrays and tuples. And
here's the cool part: the data they store is all cozy on the heap, so it can
grow or shrink as your program runs. No need to know the exact size at compile
time. Talk about flexibility, am I right?

Now, in this chapter, we're gonna focus on three collections that you'll be
using all the time in your Rust adventures. First up, we've got the vector.
Think of it as a dynamic array that can hold any number of values, all snuggled
up next to each other. It's like having a bag of goodies that can stretch and
expand whenever you need it.

Next on the list, we've got the string. Ah, the good ol' string. It's a
collection of characters, my friends. Now, you've probably heard about the
String type before, but today we're gonna take a deep dive into its awesomeness.
We'll explore its ins and outs, its quirks and features. Trust me, this little
gem is gonna be your best friend when it comes to dealing with textual data.

Last but not least, we've got the hash map. This bad boy lets you associate a
value with a specific key. It's like a treasure chest where you can stash your
precious values and retrieve them whenever you need 'em. Think of it as a fancy
implementation of a map, where each key has its own little secret compartment.
It's efficient, it's powerful, and it's gonna make your life so much easier.

Now, listen up, my friends. Choosing the right collection for the job is an art.
Each one has its own strengths and trade-offs, and as you gain more experience,
you'll become a master at picking the perfect collection for every situation.
It's like having a toolbox filled with different tools, and you know exactly
which one to grab when you need it.

Oh, and by the way, if you wanna explore the other collections offered by the
standard library, just check out the documentation. It's like a treasure trove
of knowledge waiting to be discovered.

So, in this chapter, we're gonna learn how to create and update vectors,
strings, and hash maps. We'll unravel their mysteries and uncover what makes
each of them special. Get ready to level up your collection game, my friends.
It's gonna be a wild ride!
